BRIGHTLY
I'm telling you, puberty
syndrome actually does exist!
Just look. This proves it.
Take a proper look, please.
After looking at the messages
in her friend group
my little sister's body
developed bruises.
It's such a ridiculous thing.
Can't happen in real life.
This isn't an occult manga
Why won't you just believe me?
You aren't even trying to!
No matter what you say
Azusagawa's lost it.
I think he's gone insane.
Ikumi.
Do something to clear up
this tension in the air.
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION INFORMATION
[♪ opening theme song playing]
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF SANTA CLAUS
NOVEMBER 1ST
The matchmaking party
last night was so fun.
We never did end up getting down
to the truth about you guys.
DISSONANT NOTES
Why don't you get along
with Kamisato, Azusagawa?
Actually, we get along better
now than before.
-That's better?
-Yeah. It is.
-Then I guess it's okay.
-What is?
Well, you're about to find out.
Thank you so much, Fukuyama.
You're very welcome.
Later, dude.
Don't you dare tell Yuma
anything you don't need to.
Oh, it's too late for that.
What?
I already complained
to his voicemail last night.
I told him that
not only were you late
you said you were lovey-dovey
with a handsome firefighter
in your introduction
and destroyed
my first matchmaking party.
I had no choice but to tag along
with Chiharu and company
to balance out the numbers.
You can tell that to Kunimi.
And I will.
I'm seeing him today.
Is that all you wanted to say?
Uh-huh. For me.
Wait, for you?
Sorry. I'm done.
You can go ahead.
Thank you, Saki.
Azusagawa, I heard you and Saki
went to the same high school.
Yeah. Now I know
you're friends with Kamisato.
Yeah.
She was the first person
I spoke to on campus.
She even helps me out
on occasion
with the volunteer organization
I put together.
For schooling assistance?
Azusagawa, you knew about it?
Never really saw Kamisato
as one to volunteer.
Oh, really? I actually think
it's typical of Saki.
I mean, she's aspiring
to be a nurse
so she can support
her firefighter boyfriend
as best she can.
Oh, sorry. Please don't
tell Saki I told you that.
I probably wouldn't have
the chance to, so don't worry.
Anyway, Akagi, why'd you decide
to major in nursing?
Because as a nurse
I can be there for the people
who require the most help.
I see.
So is that why you believe
in the #DREAMING posts
and act as a hero of justice?
You even cosplayed as a nurse.
It's not like I cosplay
every time I help people.
Yesterday
with the middle school kids
from the volunteer class
so I wanted to dress up
for them.
Do you always go out of your way
to save others?
Shouldn't I?
To be honest, I never thought
someone like you
would believe in occult rumors
like puberty syndrome.
So, what do you need
from me, Akagi?
I don't expect you to want
to attend something like this
but people
from our middle school
are planning a reunion
at the end of the month
so, yeah.
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION INFORMATION
You're right. I wouldn't go.
I'm sure it'd be fun for those
that have things to brag about.
I mean, that is true.
I guess I could gloat about
how I'm dating Mai now.
Well, if you did go
to the reunion, Azusagawa
nobody could say anything.
Yeah, but I'm not dating her
to flaunt my celebrity
girlfriend around others.
Really? Then why
are you dating her?
So that we can be
happy together.
Oh, please stop it.
That's so embarrassing.
I gotta go. Bye.
Help others out
in moderation, okay?
Why's that?
Because when you try
to change the future
something even worse
might end up happening instead.
Yeah, okay. Got it.
I don't think you got it at all.
SHONAN PERSONAL INSTRUCTION
CRAM SCHOOL
This is going
in the opposite direction
so people often think
it's going to be negative.
But it's about the size
of the energy, so it always...
That must be the underclassman
Kunimi told me about.
So you solve it by calculating
the momentum first.
-You listening?
-Yes, ma'am.
You get it?
-No, I don't.
-[sighs]
[chuckles softly]
Ahh! Mr. Sakuta
My brain is fried.
Hang in there, Yamada.
You still have 30 minutes
of class left.
That's too long.
Then take a quick five.
-All right!
-[sighs]
So, uh, do you guys know
about #DREAMING?
Wait, you believe in stuff
like that, Mr. Sakuta?
Seriously?
The only thing being taken on
seriously here
is your midterm scores.
Um, one of my dreams came true.
Just about a month ago
I had a dream where
I scored the winning point
in a beach volleyball match
with a clean ace.
I posted it on DREAMING
and that's how things ended up
in the match on Sunday.
But isn't that just because
you practiced a whole bunch?
Don't believe in the occult.
Believe in yourself.
I don't know what to say
when you react like that.
I'm just speaking the truth.
Even then
-I'm not creepy, you little--
-Don't even start with me.
Let's try to keep it
down a bit, okay?
Otherwise, I'm gonna get
a scolding from Miss Futaba
who's teaching her students
right next door.
-[knocking on door]
-Here we go.
Do you have a moment, sir?
Oh! Uh, hey there, Himeji.
Yeah. Nice to see you.
[reacts nervously]
Can I do something
for you, Himeji?
Well, Mr. Azusagawa
would it be all right with you
if I observed your class?
I did tell you
Miss Futaba is better
if you want a proper
understanding of math, didn't I?
Yes, that's true
if I just wanted to get
good test scores
you'd recommend yourself.
That is what I intended.
But I've lost all confidence.
Oh, did something happen?
Yamada got a 30% score.
Hey, that's personal
information, Mr. Sakuta!
How stupid.
Oh, please hold the door
-Looks like I'm safe.
-No, you're out.
Saying Mr. Azusagawa
every time is a lot.
May I call you Mr. Sakuta?
You know, like Yamada does?
As long as you show me
more respect than Yamada does
I don't mind.
You got it, Mr. Sakuta.
Himeji, do you take the train
from here?
No. My mom comes
to pick me up in her car.
I should be hearing
from her any minute.
Oh, you dropped it.
Oh! That's okay.
-[thuds]
-[both grunt]
Oww!
I'm sorry, Mr. Sakuta.
Are you okay?
It might have split open in two.
Oh, no. Let me take a look.
Wait.
Your head
isn't even injured, sir.
Here you go.
Oh, thank you very much.
[elevator dings]
Well, Mr. Sakuta
if you'll excuse me here.
Is her head made of cement
or something?
[gasps]
Hey, I'm back!
Huh?
Hello and welcome back home
Would you like some food?
Wanna take a bath?
Or maybe more?
What are you doing, Zukki?
I heard you guys
were having curry tonight.
So I'm here to partake
in its goodness.
Zukki, this is a crucial
time for you
so you need to be
more careful of scandals.
If the paparazzi managed
to get a picture
the caption would say
Well, I hope our dinner helps
you land a curry commercial.
Welcome home, Sakuta.
Welcome back, Big Brother.
Welcome back, Sakuta.
You pesky brats!
I won't let you get away
with this!
Go, my minions!
Capture them!
Oh, wow. It's a full house.
I had everybody help me out
with chopping the vegetables.
Toyohama must have
done the potatoes.
Quit your complaining and eat!
I haven't even
started complaining.
The eggplants must have been
chopped by Kaede.
Please just eat your food
without complaining.
I haven't even
started complaining.
The zucchini
must have been Hirokawa.
She is Zukki.
Correct!
Hm? Oh, wow, Mai
Glad you like it.
My perfect Mai
is beautiful as always today.
Oh, yeah!
There's something I wanted
to give you, Big Brother.
Concert tickets
for the campus festival.
Please come watch with Mai.
Yeah, okay
But, Mai, don't you work
on Sunday?
I plan to tour
the campus festival with you
so I left my schedule open.
Well, this is news to me.
That's because if I did end up
having to work
and had to cancel last minute
I would have to play along with
one of your whims in return.
So, Sakuta
Kaede, can you swap shifts
at the restaurant with me?
I'm also going to the concert
with Komi, so no.
I guess I'll ask Koga later.
-[KAEDE[ Want me to ask her now?
-Yes, please.
Hold on a sec.
-[notification dings]
-Uh, she replied.
She answers texts quickly.
She says, "I want to eat
cream puffs from the station."
Tell her I'll buy her ten
next time.
She also said
Nothing less from Laplace's
petite devil.
But I'm looking forward to the
campus festival date with Mai.
You should be looking forward
to the concert, dummy.
Okay, Big Sis, I'm gonna
head back with Uzuki now
and fill up the tub.
Oh? Please do.
Thanks for having me.
Zukki, you sleeping
over at Mai's?
[laughs mischievously]
Well, then
[Kaede giggles]
I'm gonna go take a bath too.
Hey, Kaede
Don't use it
for anything strange, okay?
I only needed
to look something up.
Fine.
Oh, that's right. Big Brother
this was left for you.
Huh?
Oh.
SHOKO MAKINOHARA
Is it Autumn already
over there?
We're still in the middle
of summer over here.
Here's photo proof.
It's me, Shoko! [giggles]
I LOVE YOU!
Is that Shoko-chan?
She looks more and more
like Shoko-san lately.
She certainly does.
I'm gonna have to keep
my eye out.
Hm?
In due time
who was your first crush.
Oh.
Are you happy?
Yeah, I am happy.
'Cause when spring comes
be the high school student
she wished to be.
That makes me sound
like the villain of this story.
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF SANTA CLAUS
Was the thing you wanted
to look up the DREAMING tag?
I thought I'd read
a bit more about it.
I WAS BUYING TOILET PAPER
I TOOK MY SHOES OFF
AT THE CASH REGISTER.
Hey, Sakuta
what do you think about
your classmates from back then?
-My classmates?
-From your middle school days.
We haven't talked much about
what those times
were like for you.
I guess I don't really think
about them at all.
With Kaede being bullied
that's the only thing
I could think about.
AZUSAGAWA'S READING
BUT IGNORING AGAIN?DIE, KAEDE
Nobody would even
try to believe me
about puberty syndrome
being real.
Kaede was always
cooped up in her room
and lost her memory.
My mom lost her mind as well
and that fragmented our family.
[grunting]
[panting]
[grunts]
And then you met your
first crush for the first time.
And a while after that
You should really forget
about that already.
I mean
but things started to get better
in high school.
I became close friends
with Kunimi and Futaba
and I had you, Mai.
I got to know
Toyohama and Koga
and so many things happened.
Kaede started
feeling better too.
I guess it's more like I didn't
let my classmates bother me.
Well, in that case, Sakuta
Forgiven her?
Azusagawa's lost it.
I think he's gone insane.
[all whispering]
What's wrong, Sakuta?
Oh, it's nothing.
It's not like Akagi
did anything to me directly.
But for some reason
Hm.
Hey, it's not what
you're thinking.
Whatever your connection
to her may be
I'm not sure
if your reunion with her
has anything to do with
her usage of the dreaming tag.
But you and I know
all too well
just how cruel and disastrous
changing the future can be.
DREAMT OF A TEST I FINISHED
If she's doing it
for someone who's dear to her
I can't really say
she should stop.
I would do the same.
But Mai, you're also opposed
to her becoming
a hero of justice, right?
[MAI] Yes. And that's because
we both know that
one person's happiness may be
someone else's misfortune.
That's true.
But with how we're talking
that are getting in the way
of the hero of justice.
Well, then
we should play the part, right
CHOOSE A PROFILE PICTURE
Natsuno
[meows]
A BOY TRIPPED AND IS CRYING
IN FRONT OF THE CLOCK TOWER.
NOVEMBER 6TH
SILVER LEAF FESTIVAL
[♪ band sings in Japanese]
♪
[crowd cheering]
[HOST] Thank you for that
lovely performance.
But before you leave the stage
how about an encore?
Don't you all want to hear
one more song?
Come on, everyone
let's keep the hype up
to the very end!
♪
[door opens]
[MAI] Great job out there.
It was longer than expected.
Yeah, we weren't planning
for that surprise encore.
The host got totally
carried away, didn't he?
But everyone seemed happy
so I'm glad
we went through with it.
Were you guys going to present
for the Mr. and Miss Campus
contest after this?
Uh-huh. So before that's over
You must get
the chocolate-covered bananas.
Yakisoba
boba, takoyaki
chocolate-covered banana
The scale of this festival
is so much bigger
than ones from our high school.
I could really go
for a taco myself.
Okay. Then do you wanna buy one
for us as well?
[chuckles] Oh, welcome.
TACO/POTSTICKERS 200 YEN
TEA 150 YEN
Can I have two tacos, please?
And one with extra salsa
Hey, it's Azusagawa.
Oh. You're right.
They were at the mixer.
As you're already aware
[gasps] Here in the flesh.
-Is this real?
-She actually just bowed at me!
Nuh-uh. She was bowing at me.
Here. Thanks for waiting.
You two aren't cosplaying?
Do you want to see me
in a nurse outfit?
I wanted to
Huh?
Here's the spare mayo
and salsa you asked for.
Thanks for that, Ikumi.
Looks like we're about
to run out of cabbage.
The yakisoba stall said
they'd share some of theirs.
NURSING DEPARTMENT
Anything else
that you need restocked?
No, we'll be fine for now.
You should stay over
at the flea market, Ikumi.
With Fukuyama and company here
Well, thank you for coming by
on such short notice, you guys.
I'm sorry you had
to take my place.
Hey, what happened
to Akagi's arm?
She tried to support someone
who was staggering on the stairs
at the train station.
Sakuta, you can go ahead
and check up on Akagi.
I'll deliver all the treats
we got backstage.
Okay, well
but, uh, what should we do
about our taco?
Let's have it now. Ah!
Mm.
Mm. Tasty!
Then I'll head over for a bit.
[grunts]
I never knew how boring
being injured was.
Seems no one needs my help
when I'm like this.
Nobody wants other people
to think they're evil monsters
who force someone to work
when they're injured.
So, they're more worried
about their image than me.
Doesn't that make
you feel more at ease?
When I showed them my pictures
from Halloween
Chiharu started saying
that we should dress up
like this for the taco shop.
Saki and I were
against the idea, but...
That's nice and all
but I'm less curious
about that trendy outfit
and more about what happened
to your arm.
From what I hear
you stopped someone
from falling down stairs.
Yeah, I guess I went against
the kind advice you gave me.
You must think
I'm a dumb woman, huh?
That's your dominant arm, right?
You okay?
It looks worse than it is
but it's just a sprain
Give it about a week
and it will heal.
Say, Azusagawa
do you happen to remember
what you wrote
for your graduation essay
in middle school?
Not at all.
I threw away my yearbook
and those memories when I moved.
Well, I remember.
What I wrote in it...
and what you wrote.
I'd definitely like you
to forget what I wrote.
I'm sure it couldn't have been
anything good.
That's not true.
Is that so?
I mean, you wrote
"Someday, I think
I'd like to reach kindness."
[grunts]
So, have you reached
your goal, Azusagawa?
Well, what about you, Akagi?
Do you think you can become
your ideal person
that you envisioned
in middle school?
Is a hero of justice something
that even adults dream
about becoming?
Then would it have been better
for that girl to get hurt?
Well, I just feel that
it would have been better
if you didn't end up injured.
I'll be careful from now on.
No intention of quitting, huh?
Look. Over there.
POTTERY
I'm running that stall
with middle school kids
that I volunteered to tutor.
They're all kids who became
unable to attend school.
We're selling some pottery
we all made together.
So, please take a look.
I've got somewhere
to go right now.
If it's the clock tower
Nothing's going to happen.
Hm.
You saw the DREAMING
tag post, right?
The one about a boy who trips
and starts crying?
I made the whole
thing up myself.
A BOY TRIPPED AND IS CRYING
IN FRONT OF THE CLOCK TOWER.
That's good.
I'm glad there isn't
a crying boy over there.
As for you, don't do that.
We're university students now.
Yeah, you're right.
Hey, don't copy me.
[both gasp]
[cries]
[gasps]
Don't worry. I'm okay.
Akagi, are you...
It's nothing.
It just happens sometimes.
Is this puberty syndrome?
[♪ closing theme song playing]
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF A NIGHTINGALE
[GIRL] Oh, Sakuta.
You're such a rascal.
NEXT EPISODE - #6 YOU AND I
WITHIN THE REALM OF MEMORIES